[docu-2785] Custom reports (#5098)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/analytics/reference.md

---
title: Reports Reference
content_type: reference
badge: plus
---

> ## Metrics

Reviewer: Table needs some updates to use camel case for metric names. It should be:

- Request Count
- Request per Minute
- Response Latency
- Request Size
- Response Size

## Grouping and filtering

When selecting a category to filter or group by, you have the following options:

Category | Description
---------|------------
None | Aggregate all of the data in the organization without any grouping.
Service | Group or filter the data by {{site.konnect_short_name}} service.
Service Version | Group or filter the data by {{site.konnect_short_name}} service version. <br><br>If you select multiple service versions in a report, the report shows the sum of requests for all selected versions broken down by service. It **does not** show data points for individual service versions.
Route | Group or filter the data by route. Route names are composed of elements referencing their related service, service version, and runtime group. See [Route entity format](#route-entity-format) for details.
Application | Group or filter the data by application.
Status Code | Group or filter the data by individual response status code.
Status Code (grouped) | Group or filter the data by response status code category: 1XX, 2XX, 3XX, 4XX, and 5XX.

> ### Route entity format

Reviewer: We need to extend this section to not only cover how we produce the Route name but also a Service Version. Service Version are also not unique across Konnect. Hence, we had to come up with a similar approach.

For Service Version, we do:

```
KONNECT_SERVICE_NAME - VERSION (RUNTIME GROUP)
```

Examples:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/498114/216618901-01323c17-0ab2-4b92-a786-1db3d3f2c5cb.png)

In custom reports, the route entity name is composed of the following elements:

```
KONNECT_SERVICE_NAME.VERSION.ROUTE_NAME|FIRST_FIVE_UUID_CHARS (RUNTIME GROUP)
```

> For example, for a route entity named `example_service.v1.example_route` with the badge `default`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: we don't currently have the runtime group in a badge:

```suggestion
For example, for a route entity named `example_service.v1.example_route (default)`:
```

* `example_service` is the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service name
* `v1` is the service version
* `example_route` is the route name
* `default` is the runtime group name

Or, if your route doesn't have a name, it might look like this:
`example_service.v1.DA58B`

Where `DA58B` are the first five characters of its UUID.

## Time intervals

All time interval presets are **relative**. 
For custom reports, you can also choose a **custom** date range.

* **Relative** time frames are dynamic and the report captures a snapshot of data
relative to when a user views the report.
* **Custom** time frames are static and the report captures a snapshot of data
during the specified time frame. You can see the exact range below
the time frame selector. For example:

    ```
    Jan 26, 2023 12:00 AM - Feb 01, 2023 12:00 AM (PST)
    ```

Interval | Description  
---------|-------------

> Last 15 minutes | Data is aggregated in ten second increments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last 15 minutes | Data is aggregated in one minute increments.
```

Last hour| Data is aggregated in one minute increments.

> Last 6 hours | Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last 6 hours | Data is aggregated in one minute increments.
```

> Last 6 hours | Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.
> Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.
> Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last 6 hours | Data is aggregated in one hour increments.
Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in one hour increments.
Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in one hour increments.
```

> Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.
> Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in ten minute increments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in hourly increments.
Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in hourly increments.
```

(Sorry, corrected my earlier comment.)

Last 7 days | Data is aggregated in one hour increments.

> Last 30 days | Data is aggregated in one hour increments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last 30 days | Data is aggregated in daily increments.
```

This week | Data is aggregated in one hour increments. Logs any traffic in the current calendar week. 

> This month | Data is aggregated in one hour increments. Logs any traffic in the current calendar month. 

Reviewer: Should be `Current week` and `Current month`.

> This month | Data is aggregated in one hour increments. Logs any traffic in the current calendar month. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Current month | Data is aggregated in daily increments. Logs any traffic in the current calendar month. 
```

Previous week | Data is aggregated in one hour increments. Logs any traffic in the previous calendar week.

> Previous month | Data is aggregated in one hour increments. Logs any traffic in the previous calendar month. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previous month | Data is aggregated in daily increments. Logs any traffic in the previous calendar month. 
```

{:.important}
> Free tier users can only select intervals up to 24 hours.

> ## Terms

Reviewer: Do we still need that? Most, if not all, are explained above.

{:.note}
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_saas}} Analytics uses percentiles to enable you to understand the real performance characteristics of your APIs. Percentiles depict a more accurate picture of what most end users experience using your API instead of hiding critical experiences by displaying averages.

## Grouping and filtering

When selecting a category to filter or group by, you have the following options:

Category | Description
---------|------------
None | Aggregate all of the data in the organization without any grouping.
Service | Group or filter the data by {{site.konnect_short_name}} service.
Service Version | Group or filter the data by {{site.konnect_short_name}} service version. <br><br>If you select multiple service versions in a report, the report shows the sum of requests for all selected versions broken down by service. It **does not** show data points for individual service versions.
Route | Group or filter the data by route. Route names are composed of elements referencing their related service, service version, and runtime group. See [Route entity format](#route-entity-format) for details.
Application | Group or filter the data by application.

> Status Code | Group or filter the data by individual response status code. Displays visualizations of cluster-wide status code classes (1xx, 2xx, 3xx,
>   4xx, 5xx). The Status Codes view contains the counts of status code classes
>   graphed over time, as well as the ratio of code classes to total requests.
> Status Code (grouped) | Group or filter the data by response status code category: 1XX, 2XX, 3XX, 4XX, and 5XX.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Status Code | Group or filter the data by individual response status code.
Status Code (grouped) | Group or filter the data by response status code category: 1XX, 2XX, 3XX, 4XX, and 5XX. Displays visualizations of cluster-wide status code classes (1xx, 2xx, 3xx,
  4xx, 5xx). The Status Codes view contains the counts of status code classes
  graphed over time, as well as the ratio of code classes to total requests.
```
@adorack That's my bad, thanks for catching that! Is this correct now?

Reviewer 2: Ah, no worries.  That's better... I don't think we need the last sentence ("The Status Codes view contains the counts of status code classes graphed over time, as well as the ratio of code classes to total requests.")?  I can't think of anything offhand that explicitly graphs the ratio of code classes to total requests -- the summary page shows the ratio of error classes to total requests, but not individual code classes.  Reports definitely don't have this functionality.

To my eyes, the second sentence (Displays visualizations of cluster-wide status code classes (1xx, 2xx, 3xx, 4xx, 5xx).) is redundant, but that's more of a nitpick.

Author: This section
> 1XX, 2XX, 3XX, 4XX, and 5XX. Displays visualizations of cluster-wide status code classes (1xx, 2xx, 3xx,
is mixed case. 

I also think the second sentence can be removed.

### Route entity format

In custom reports, the route entity name is composed of the following elements:

```
KONNECT_SERVICE_NAME.VERSION.ROUTE_NAME|FIRST_FIVE_UUID_CHARS (RUNTIME GROUP)
```

For example, for a route entity named `example_service.v1.example_route` with the badge `default`:
* `example_service` is the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service name
* `v1` is the service version
* `example_route` is the route name
* `default` is the runtime group name

Or, if your route doesn't have a name, it might look like this:
`example_service.v1.DA58B`

Where `DA58B` are the first five characters of its UUID.

> ### Service version entity format

Reviewer 3: @sichvoge Is this what you had in mind?

Reviewer: Yes. How about we add some explanation to it as well. Like: 

> "Service Version" name is not unique across an organization. Hence, for you to better identify the entity you need, the service version entity name is composed of the following elements:

Or something like that :D

In custom reports, the service version entity name is composed of the following elements:

```
KONNECT_SERVICE_NAME - VERSION (RUNTIME GROUP)
```

> For example, for a service version entity named `Account - v1` with the badge `dev`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, for a service version entity named `Account - v1 (dev)`:
```

* `Account` is the {{site.konnect_short_name}} service name
* `v1` is the service version
* `dev` is the runtime group name

## Time intervals

The time frame selector controls the time frame of data visualized, which indirectly controls the
granularity of the data. For example, the “5M” selection displays 5 minutes in
1-second resolution data, while longer time frames display minute, hour, or days resolution data.

All time interval presets are **relative**. 
For custom reports, you can also choose a **custom** date range.

* **Relative** time frames are dynamic and the report captures a snapshot of data
relative to when a user views the report.
* **Custom** time frames are static and the report captures a snapshot of data
during the specified time frame. You can see the exact range below
the time frame selector. For example:

    ```
    Jan 26, 2023 12:00 AM - Feb 01, 2023 12:00 AM (PST)
    ```

Interval | Description  
---------|-------------
Last 15 minutes | Data is aggregated in one minute increments.
Last hour| Data is aggregated in one minute increments.
Last 6 hours | Data is aggregated in one minute increments.

> Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in hourly increments.
> Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in hourly increments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Last 12 hours| Data is aggregated in one hour increments.
Last 24 hours| Data is aggregated in one hour increments.
```

Reviewer 2: I think that's good!
